JUDY WOODRUFF: And Senator
Roger Wicker of Mississippi was
also at the White House today.
I started by asking him if the
president's engagement adds
more pressure on Republicans.
SEN.
ROGER WICKER (R), Mississippi:
Well, I guess there is some
pressure on some of the people
who are sort of still
doubtful about this.
I don't feel the pressure,
because I have been a yes
vote for quite some time.
But let me tell you,
there are two schools of
thought on moving forward.
The majority leader, Senator
McConnell, would like to get to
a vote on the motion to proceed
and see where people are.
And, if we win, great,
we proceed to the bill.
If not, at least people have
voted, and we know what the
target is, if we lose by two
or three votes.
The president, on the other
hand, really thinks that, over
the next few days, we can get 50
votes to yes.
And he was all about today
getting into the details of
what's keeping various members
from being able to say 100
percent that they can support
this legislation and deciding
what levers to pull to
get the bill to a place
where 50 of us can say yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, the reason
I'm asking about pressure is
because, a couple of weeks
ago, when Senator Dean Heller of
Nevada indicated he was having
problems with the legislation,
there was a political action
group supporting the president
that ran ads against him.
Is that the kind of...
(CROSSTALK)
SEN.
ROGER WICKER: And I think that
was generally considered to be
bad form and counterproductive
among people in the
Republican Conference.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, let
me ask you a little bit
about the substance of this.
As you know, a lot of discussion
about what this bill would
mean for coverage, including
Medicaid.
The vice president of your home
state -- a Mississippi state
hospital association quoted
this week as saying they
are opposed to anything
that increases the
number of uninsured in
Mississippi.
SEN.
ROGER WICKER: Well, for
one thing, I don't think
it would increase the
number of uninsured.
These changes are based on
projections of people that will
be covered, if the estimates
are correct.
So, I would just challenge that.
But let me also say -- and I
don't mean to be critical, or
I don't mean this to be taken
wrong -- but there's never
been a provider who came to us
and said, we need you to slow
the growth rate of these
entitlement programs.
I mean, that's just
not something that
they're going to say.
But the fact is we can
make health care better
for Mississippians, and
we can make coverage
better for the average American,
while, at the same time,
saving a system that is not
sustainable for
future generations.
And we can do that.
And, at the end of the day,
I think people in the health
care business, in the hospital
business in future years
will say, you have saved
the system and good for you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, when
I read that there are
almost half-a-million
children in Mississippi
who depend on Medicaid, are
you saying they don't have
anything to worry about?
SEN.
ROGER WICKER: I think -- well,
for one thing, we are not
a Medicaid expansion state.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
SEN.
ROGER WICKER: Our state
didn't choose to do that.
And so it's completely
inaccurate to say that
these 500,000 children
are going to lose their
coverage.
They're not.
As a matter of fact, there will
be a tradition - - I mean, there
will be a transition -- I'm
sorry -- and states that
expanded Medicaid will have a
seven-year period and there will
be an extra incentive for those
states who chose not to do that.
But those 500,000 children that
you talk about are not going to
have their coverage threatened.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right.
Senator Roger Wicker joining us
from the Capitol, we thank you.
SEN.
ROGER WICKER: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And a quick
postscript: We don't know yet
what the latest revisions to
the Senate bill to repeal and
replace the Affordable Care
Act will include, but, for
the record, the Congressional
Budget Office already estimated
what would happen with the
first version of the bill.
It concluded there would be 15
million fewer Medicaid enrollees
in a decade than projected
under current law.
It also said that, over the
long haul, states would likely
have to either spend more money,
cut payments, eliminate
services or limit who's
eligible for Medicaid.
It is not clear how many
children would be affected.